# Response to Blumenstock
Conor Sokolowsky

January 27

Blumenstock describes the rise of digital data collection in the world of international development aid, and acknowledges the promises that governments and humanitarian agencies have made: to use these new developments to more efficiently and effectively allocate aid to a larger number of people throughout the world. However, Blumenstock also takes a critical look at this promise by analyzing various pitfalls that threaten the idealistic dreams of the international aid community. The novelty of the technology, combined with inherent biases in the data collection, has the potential to create hidden flaws in the system of data collection, data analysis, and dispersal of aid. Poorer people, who may not have the necessary financial experience to not fall into pay-day loan debt traps, or who may not even have phones to make a digitial footprint in the first place, may be left out of the equation of development. In addition, the lack of regulation in developing countries means that companies and governments have the opportunity to violate the privacy rights of and discriminate against people based on an abitrary valuation that may be flawed (China is already moving in this direction).

Blumenstock offers some optimistic solutions to these problems, for example combining data with existing survey collections to create a far more personable, localized, and accurate system of data collection. In addition, Blumenstock pushes for more interdisciplinary collaboration between data scientists and government/humanitarian workers, so that the data can be processed with the proper context in mind. He argues that although good intent is always necessary to motivate people to excel in the world of human development and to foster collaboration, it is not enough. Money is a far more powerful motivator. Money is what is bringing in the digital microloans, increased cell towers, and cell phones to the developing world. However, money is also dangerous; it's what motivates companies to use development data too quickly without necessary regulation on privacy, and without validation that the data collection process even works. Businesses see a niche to fill in the developing world, and government, humanitarian, and aid workers need to make sure that those businesses don't do more harm than good.

It is important to note that in the realm of human development, the goal is to improve the well-being of individuals. There is yet to be research that proves that internet access or mobile phone usage actually correlates with better well-being. The research claiming that this correlation exists assumes that a) phones give people access to better financial tools (which can be true, as seen with digital microloans), and b) that these financial tools, which can allow poeple to make more money, equate to a higher standard of well-being. This assumption that more money always equates to more happiness has been hypothesized to be incorrect; as long as all basic needs are met, additional money should theoretically do little to increase the actual, subjective well-being of an individual. Therefore, the dispersal of mobile phones and internet access may not have the long-term positive impact they are projected to have. I find it necessary to include social scientists in the collaboration between aid agencies and data scientists so that a) data collection can be held to a moral standard, b) individual's subjective well-beings are taken into account, not just digital footprints, and c)the foresight exists to look beyond the potential for profits and instead at the actual promise of human development.

