# Response to Lloyd et al
Conor Sokolowsky

Feb 10

  In a convential population-mapping method, the accuracy of the population estimates withing each pixel can be degraded. The authors describe two such methods, the first being the most rudimentary: the areal-weighting approach. In this method, researchers utilize census data and then uniformally distribute the population count over an explicit administrative boundary within that country. Although the original data is preserved in using this approach, it is often the case that countries with large areal inputs produce inaccurate population models. The second method is a little bit more involved, and utilizes additional land cover information, including the extents of various settlements within an administrative boundary. The main benefit of using these additional geospatial layers is that it improves the accuracy of the pixelated population estimates by providing more localized information on a given geographic area.
  
  In this paper, the authors describe the global gridded data set that they produced. The data has a 100m by 100m resolution and uses 30 arc-second satellite images (30 arc-seconds is 1 km at the equator). As a result, their generated data sets are composed of grid cells and raster data. Raster data are composed of discrete units and are more easily compiled using census data, unlike vector data, which are continuous units that are used to represent lines and polygons. The authors utilized numerous types of geospatial layers to build upon the second of the traditional methods, using public transit lines and clusters to approximate where high population densities exist. They also used natural features, including trees, to determine population distribution by using predictive algorithms that are based on tree density. Lastly, the authors disaggregated, or pulled apart, the census data to fit their predictive geospatial layers to produce population distribution maps that are far more accurate than traditional methods.
